= Sayri
== Simple LDAP administrator for Unix resources

There are a lot of web ldap administrator such as phpldapamin or apacheldapadmin, but almost everyone are orientated for system administrator. Sayri pretend to simplify the administration of and overall network but orientate to standard user. So you can install it and tell you lazy boss to handle resource as a master administrator.

== What is Sayri

The idea behind Sayri is to facilitate the administration of resources in a Unix / Linux network. For be more specific it will help you to administrate everything that can be in /etc/nsswitch.conf file. Such as users,groups,host,network, etc.

Sayri is not a LDAP administrator, it just use LDAP as backend for handle Unix resource as: users, groups, hosts, sudoers.

== Requirements

Sayri should run on most Unix, Linux, Mac, Mac Server and Windows systems as long as Ruby is available on this platform.

=== Ruby interpreter

It should work on ruby 1.9.x and 2.x, ruby 1.8.x is not supported.

== HowTo

=== Install RVM

 $ \curl -sSL https://get.rvm.io | sudo bash -s stable
 
And a couple of lines to ~/.bash_profile:
 [[ -s "$HOME/.profile" ]] && source "$HOME/.profile"
 [[ -s "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm" ]] && source "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm"
 
Run: 
 $ source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm
 $ rvm requirements
 
==== Install Ruby
 
 $ rvm install 2.1.0
 $ rvm use 2.1.0
 
Or set Ruby 2.1.0 as default for user:
 $ rvm --default use 2.1.0

=== Clone Sayri

 $ cd /usr/local/www
 $ git clone https://github.com/rudicba/sayri.git
 $ cd sayri
 $ sudo bundle install
 
Some system dependencies are required to run "bundle install". Like: gmake and other

FreeBSD Specific:

Remplace therubyracer in Gemfile with:
 gem 'therubyracer-freebsd', '0.11.1p2', :platforms => :ruby
  
Run bundle:
 $ sudo CONFIGURE_ARGS=”with-sqlite3-dir=/usr/local” bundle install
 
=== Configure Sayri

Copy examples:
 $ cp config/database.yml.example config/database.yml
 $ cp config/ldap.yml.example config/ldap.yml
 
Edit and configure examples:
 $ vi config/database.yml
 $ vi config/ldap.yml
 
Migrate database:
 $ rake db:migrate

== License

Sayri is released under the BSD 3-Clause License[http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause]
